# CUNY2X Foundational Pre-Internship Workshop
## Session 4: git workflow

---

# The Code Base

A code base is a collection of files for an app, program, system, etc. They generally have a `main/master` version that goes live, optionally with other versions (branches).

---

# Branching

git branches allow you to see and work on different versions of the code base. This is useful if:

- different team members are working on different parts of the code
- you are working on code that may end up breaking the project or not being used
- you are working on large/long projects with  different environments like *dev*, *staging*, and *live*

---

# Feature Branch

When you are specifically working on a new set of *feature* or functionality that is somewhat isolated from the rest of the code base, you'll create a branch that will have the same code up to that point.

Any changes you make will be kept separated unless it's merged back.

---

# Merging

Once you are satisfied with your changes, you can merge your feature branch back into the repo. This will update the main branch and make those changes available to everyone else. It will be considered an official part of the code base instead of a WIP, test, dev, etc.

git will try to automatically make these changes / additions using intelligent algorithms. When it can't, there will be a `merge conflict` and you will have to resolve it manually!

---

# Pull Request

In larger projects, changes to the main branch are critical. Any errors could result in downed servers, invalid transactions, and user complaints. Therefore, proposed changes can go through a number of different approval processes. One of these is submitting a *pull request*.

pull requests are a declaration that a specific branch should be merged into main. This will go through some automated checks and often one or more manual checks. Once a pull request is approved, all of the code changes will be migrated over.

A pull request can also be rejected if it is missing something or conflicts with existing code in a way that wasn't thoroughly tested.

---

# Pop Quiz!

What do the following sentences mean in plain English?

- I'll work on this in a feature branch and create a pull request when it's ready.
- There's a bug in commit b33aef4. Let's reset to the commit before.
- My code is fubar'ed. I'm just going to branch off of main again.
- Can you fork it? I don't want to commit any code if it's going to break.

---

# Common git commands

```
git init
git add
git commit
git push
git status
git branch
git checkout
git merge
git clone
git pull
```
